today i'm going to explain a thriller
film called zodiac
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
the year is 1969 in vallejo california
after a half-hearted drive to the diner
darlene farron and michael major decide
to spend their fourth of july near a
forest it was gearing to be an awkwardly
romantic evening for the two until a
group of teenagers started throwing
firecrackers at their car
michael curses the group as they drive
off and this endears darling to him even
more
suddenly a new car pulls over from a
distance making them grow weary the car
drives away and i start to calm down but
eventually the vehicle circles back
behind them the pair's nervousness only
grew when a man stepped out to point a
flashlight at them
thinking it would be a robbery michael
tells darlene to take her wallet out
before they could react the man pulls
out a gun and begins firing at them
darlene is shot repeatedly fatally
injuring her the murderer calls the
police and reports the location of his
victims before ending the call by
announcing that he killed the kids from
last year with that he bid the police
goodbye
four weeks later the news publisher san
francisco chronicle receives a direct
letter from the self-proclaimed killer
in the letter he claims that he killed
the two teenagers along with another
girl last fourth of july to prove that
he isn't bluffing he wrote facts that
only the killer and the police would
know the letter also contained a cipher
that split into three parts with the
other two parts sent to vallejo times
and sf examiner the killer demands these
companies to print the coded messages
containing his identity to the front
page of their papers
he threatens to kill a dozen people
should they ignore him the newspaper
editors hold a meeting to discuss
whether they'll comply with the killer's
request or not one of the members of the
discussion is robert greysmith the
paper's cartoonist he is handed the
coded message then writes down the
symbols on a piece of paper
the editorial team wants to confirm with
paul avery if the events that the killer
reported were actually true
paul is their local writer who covers
crimes in vallejo so he's able to call
the vallejo police department and thin
for them he's able to confirm the
shootings the editors decide to run with
the killer's demands but they opted to
print the code on the fourth page
instead while most of the team leaves to
go to a bar robert decides to come home
with his young son
once home he pins the killer's cipher on
his wall
all three parts of the cipher are now in
circulation and several people are
working to crack the code including
skaggs island naval intelligence center
the fbi and the cia
among those interested in the code are
history teacher donald harden and his
wife betty back in the san francisco
chronicle paul acquaints himself with
robert he shows him the cipher which was
successfully decoded by donald and betty
robert reads out the message and paul
mentions that there are still some
leftover letters scrambled at the bottom
while robert ponders over what they
could possibly mean paul leaves him to
think the editorial calls paul and they
inform him that the killer sent in
another letter about his killings what's
more is that they finally have a name to
call the killer by
he introduced himself as zodiac back at
the san francisco chronicle robert
discovers another clue related to the
zodiac the people of the city are
growing increasingly unsettled and on
one such night a cab driver is killed
police officers bill and david arrive at
the scene of the crime and they try to
pin down what could have happened after
further analysis david decides to speak
with some children who saw the zodiac
from a window
three days later inspector david and
bill make their way to the san francisco
chronicle to speak with the editors
during that time the company receives
their next letter from the zodiac along
with a worrying piece of item the
bloodstained shirt worn by the cab
driver
in the letter the zodiac claims the
murder of the driver along with the
vallejo and napa killings but most
unnerving of all is the killer's written
threat to murder innocent school
children this prompts the editors to
publish the killer story
the following day robert couldn't help
but worry deeply for his preschooler son
he stops his son from boarding his
school bus at the last minute and
decides to drive him to school instead
bill and david have resolved to go fully
public with a zodiac threat against the
children so they can effectively warn
people of the possible danger
several hundred reports come flying in
and with the press breathing down their
necks the police are struggling to
narrow down the truth
bill tries to coordinate with the
departments in vallejo and napa he
discovers that the killer wore boots
used solely by military personnel
just then two police officers enter the
room and they report to bill and david
that they saw the killer on the night
when the cab driver was shot the two of
them confirmed what the man looked like
but they didn't think to stop him
because according to their orders the
suspect was an african-american adult
male the profile of the suspect is later
corrected to be caucasian
in the middle of the night the police
receive a call from someone claiming to
be the killer the killer demands to be
featured on a talk show and the police
readily complies to trace the call
the show begins and the zodiac makes his
next call telling them to meet him on
the top of fairmont hotel
inspector david sends a team to the
location immediately but before they can
trace the call the zodiac hangs up the
host assures him and promises that no
one's tracing their conversation
this seems to convince the zodiac and he
rings them up again
he talks about his never-ending
headaches about how he only ever gets
them to stop when he kills people the
host pleads with the killer to meet him
and the zodiac demands they meet in
front of a thrift store in daly city
both the host and the police arrive at
the zodiac specified location back in
the television studio however the police
confirmed with one of the victims that
the caller was a fraud it wasn't the
zodiac as he had a different voice
the call tracing came in and they find
out that the call was made from a mental
institution
back at the chronicle they receive
another letter from the killer it
contains both a cipher and a damning
recipe for a bomb
to discuss their new coded message paul
and robert go out together for some
drinks
the killer sends a letter to the tv host
bill and david pay him a visit to
question him but they conclude that the
letter may not be noteworthy
meanwhile a woman with her baby is
driving along a highway near modesto
she's stopped by a loud honking coming
from the car behind her the man informs
her that her right tire is loose and
even offers to help
she accepts then tries to run her car
when he was finished only to have the
will op off
seeing her predicament the man drives
back and offers to take her to the
nearest gas station
as she settles in the passenger seat the
man comments that he didn't know she had
a baby with her in the middle of the
drive the woman tries to soothe her
crying child and that's when the man
calmly tells her that he'll throw the
baby out of the window before killing
her a while later the same woman is seen
in the middle of the road having jumped
out of the car's window with her baby
some time has passed and several letters
claiming to be from the zodiac killer
are coming in
paul tells robert that the zodiac is
claiming crimes that aren't his own and
he starts to theorize that he just wants
attention from the press
at present they can only confirm five of
the 13 murders being attributed to him
paul then shows robert the watch brand
that the zodiac took his name and logo
from
one morning paul receives a nice holiday
card from the zodiac and this time it's
directly addressed to him dave suggests
that he must have aggravated the zodiac
at some point by calling him a latent
homosexual in one of his articles about
the killer later on many people are
beginning to wear i am not paul avery
pins to avert the threat of the zodiac
killer with his life under direct threat
paul buys himself a gun
an anonymous tip then comes in asking
for paul to come to riverside la that
same evening robert goes on a date with
a woman named melanie
she asks about his job prompting robert
to explain the current situation with
paul in the zodiac killer this gets
melanie thinking and she suspects that
since it was an anonymous tip the call
could be from the zodiac killer himself
melody helps robert realize that this
may turn into an ambush so he goes to a
phone booth to call paul's wife
a call later comes in from paul himself
and he has some interesting findings
he reports that the riverside experts
discovered that the single unsolved
homicide case in riverside's history was
not only done by the zodiac killer
himself but it was also his first murder
according to paul the handwriting
matches the other letters they've been
receiving
paul hands the information directly to
the press instead of running it through
with the police
this angers dave a few days pass and
dave along with the other members of the
police force have made their way to
riverside to discuss the evidence and
details they had on the alleged first
zodiac case with the public unrest that
paul had caused the police are being
bombarded with people claiming to either
be the zodiac or a witness
one of the many probable suspects is
arthur lee allen who his former
colleagues reported to the police
dave and bill follow the lead to trackly
down
they first arrived at his place of work
to speak with him and during his
impromptu questioning the pair noticed
some suspicious things about the man
he had many telling signs from the
zodiac branded watch and his knowledge
of the book the most dangerous game
this was referenced in one of the
killer's many letters
lee shaping up to be an attractive
suspect so the police decide to
investigate further
ville and dave tried to procure a search
warrant for lee's house but their
request was disapproved to do
insufficient evidence they try to build
their evidence against him with the help
of a handwriting analyst a psychologist
for an expert witness and lee's former
co-worker chaney as soon as they get
their search warrant the police head
straight for lee's trailer but by the
time they got there he wasn't home
after a search of the house the police
finally driving back towards his trailer
but back in the police station forensics
couldn't find a match on lee or the
zodiac
left with no other substantial suspect
this leaves the team incredibly
frustrated
four years have passed and by this point
most people have moved on from the
zodiac case
bill left the force and paul quit the
san francisco chronicle
robert however is still fixated with it
he visits paul to encourage him to write
a book about the zodiac killer after all
no one knows the story as much as he
does
paul dismisses his idea finding it to be
meaningless and when robert insists that
the case is still important paul gets
mad at him he doesn't need robert to
invigorate his sense of purpose and when
robert refuses to let it go he berates
him
though robert didn't find any success
with paul he doesn't give up
he pays dave a visit in the police
station to try and convince him to start
the search again
robert shows him a lead that he got from
the zodiac's very first cipher this
impresses dave so he sends robert to the
police officer in napa to ken narlow and
then to jack mullinax and vallejo
jack gives robert access to his case
files along with all the evidences on
the condition that he doesn't write
anything down
robert continues tirelessly with his
search until a man named wallace penny
calls him on the phone he claims that
the zodiac killer goes by the name of
rick marshall then hangs up
robert gets the help of several people
from the police force and continues to
gather information to bring him closer
to solving the impossible case thanks to
wallace robert gets his hands on rick
marshall's handwriting sample
he sends the sample in for analysis and
with the zodiac case's original
handwriting analyst robert concludes
that the handwriting is the closest
match they've ever had a new zodiac
letter arrives at the san francisco
chronicle which mentions david
specifically because of some rumors
circulated by a news writer david was
accused of writing the zodiac letter
himself as a publicity stunt and lost
his job at the force
david gives up the hunt for zodiac but
robert continues to be consumed by the
hunt much to the disappointment of his
wife
robert meets up with bob vaughn the man
wallace penny says is a friend of the
zodiacs bob leads robert to his house
and after a brief conversation robert
finds out that it wasn't rick's
handwriting on the sample but bob's bob
leads robert to the basement and the
realization starts sinking in
when robert finds out that bob
participated in the zodiac killings he
tries to escape but the door was locked
strangely bob allows robert to leave and
unlocks the door
robert later speaks with linda the
sister of one of the zodiac's victims
linda tells him about a painting party
that her sister threw
several people attended including a
strange man in a suit who sat in a chair
the entire night and didn't say a word
her sister was scared of him in a few
weeks after that she was killed much to
robert's surprise she says that the
man's name was lee robert knocks on
david's door ready to tell him about his
discoveries he was hesitant to listen to
robert at first but after hearing lee's
name david is all ears the two of them
start working on the case together and
robert wants to go forward and make this
a matter of official police
investigation
david shoots the idea down telling him
that they don't have the evidence to
back their speculations up
many years later robert finishes his
book on the zodiac killer the police set
a meeting with michael maju who survived
the zodiac killer's attack
the police officer shows him several
photos of potential suspects and meiju
identifies lee confirming that he was
the one who shot him
following mike major's identification of
arthur lee allen authorities scheduled a
meeting to discuss charging him with the
murders lee suffered a fatal heart
attack before this meeting could take
place
in 2002 a partial dna profile that did
not match alan was developed from a 33
year old zodiac envelope investigators
in san francisco and vallejo refused to
rule out allen as a suspect on the basis
of this test
in 2004 the san francisco police
department deactivated their zodiac
investigation
today the case remains open in napa
county solano county and in the city of
vallejo where arthur lee allen is still
the prime and only suspect
inspector david toski retired from the
san francisco police department in 1989.
his name was cleared and he was free
from the false charges against him
paul avery passed away on december 10
2000 due to pulmonary emphysema he was
66 his ashes were scattered by his
family in san francisco bay
robert greysmith lives in san francisco
and enjoys a healthy relationship with
his children
he claims he has not received a single
anonymous call since alan's death
subscribe to watch more videos like this
turn on notifications
and leave a like it really helps the
channel out thank you for watching